README.md, before:

# Real-time Emotion Detection Application

## Overview
The Real-time Emotion Detection Application is a pioneering tool designed to enhance online interactions by providing instant emotional feedback. Utilizing the cutting-edge Residual Masking Network (RMN) model, this application captures screen content, identifies emotions from faces displayed, and overlays the detected emotions with corresponding text labels and colors. This innovative approach aims to foster a deeper understanding and empathy among participants in online meetings, virtual classrooms, and beyond.

## Demo 
https://github.com/Op27/Real-time-Emotion-Detection/assets/39921621/9a39413e-5f56-4a5f-bf09-320c69a46621

Original video sourced by the [UN UAE](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JrQgO5VjaZE)



## Features
- Real-time emotion detection from screen captures.
- Supports a wide range of emotions for comprehensive analysis.
- Lightweight and easy to integrate with existing online platforms.
- Enhances engagement and interaction in online communications.

## Practical Uses

The Real-time Emotion Detection Application finds utility in numerous domains, enhancing interactions and providing insights across various fields:

**🖥️Online Meetings and Virtual Classrooms:**
Improves engagement and understanding of participants' emotional responses in real-time, allowing educators and professionals to adapt their delivery for enhanced interaction and learning outcomes.

**🧠Mental Health Monitoring:**
Offers mental health professionals insights into patients' emotional states during telehealth sessions, aiding in the identification of trends or moments needing intervention, thereby supporting more responsive care.

**📞Customer Service and Support:**
Enhances customer satisfaction by analyzing emotions during service calls or support sessions, enabling service representatives to adjust their approaches and responses to better meet customer needs and resolve issues empathetically.


## Implementation Guide

### Prerequisites
Ensure you have the following installed:
- Python 3.x
- Pip

### Installation
1. Clone the repository to your local machine:
git clone https://github.com/Op27/Real-time-Emotion-Detection.git

2. Navigate to the cloned directory and install the required dependencies:
``` sh
cd Real-time-Emotion-Detection
```

```sh
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### Running the Application
To start the emotion detection, simply run:
```sh
python app.py
```

Follow the on-screen instructions to begin capturing emotions in real-time.


## License
This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## Acknowledgments
- The RMN library developers for their outstanding work in the field of emotion detection.

Commit message:

Updated README with privacy considerations

README.md, after:

# Real-time Emotion Detection Application

## Overview
The Real-time Emotion Detection Application is a pioneering tool designed to enhance online interactions by providing instant emotional feedback. Utilizing the cutting-edge Residual Masking Network (RMN) model, this application captures screen content, identifies emotions from faces displayed, and overlays the detected emotions with corresponding text labels and colors. This innovative approach aims to foster a deeper understanding and empathy among participants in online meetings, virtual classrooms, and beyond.

## Demo 
https://github.com/Op27/Real-time-Emotion-Detection/assets/39921621/9a39413e-5f56-4a5f-bf09-320c69a46621

Original video sourced by the [UN UAE](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JrQgO5VjaZE)


## Features
- Real-time emotion detection from screen captures.
- Supports a wide range of emotions for comprehensive analysis.
- Lightweight and easy to integrate with existing online platforms.
- Enhances engagement and interaction in online communications.

## Practical Uses

The Real-time Emotion Detection Application finds utility in numerous domains, enhancing interactions and providing insights across various fields:

**🖥️Online Meetings and Virtual Classrooms:**
Improves engagement and understanding of participants' emotional responses in real-time, allowing educators and professionals to adapt their delivery for enhanced interaction and learning outcomes.

**🧠Mental Health Monitoring:**
Offers mental health professionals insights into patients' emotional states during telehealth sessions, aiding in the identification of trends or moments needing intervention, thereby supporting more responsive care.

**📞Customer Service and Support:**
Enhances customer satisfaction by analyzing emotions during service calls or support sessions, enabling service representatives to adjust their approaches and responses to better meet customer needs and resolve issues empathetically.

## Privacy Considerations and User Consent

When using the Real-time Emotion Detection Application, it is imperative to prioritize the privacy and consent of all individuals involved. This application has the capability to capture emotions from faces in real-time, which may include individuals who have not directly interacted with the software. 

As a user of this application, you are responsible for ensuring that you have explicit consent from anyone whose emotions you capture and analyze. Consent is a fundamental aspect of privacy and ethical consideration, and it is your duty to respect the rights and privacy of others. Failure to obtain consent may violate personal privacy rights and could lead to legal repercussions. 

Always use this application in a manner that is respectful and considerate of others' privacy.

## Implementation Guide

### Prerequisites
Ensure you have the following installed:
- Python 3.x
- Pip

### Installation
1. Clone the repository to your local machine:
git clone https://github.com/Op27/Real-time-Emotion-Detection.git

2. Navigate to the cloned directory and install the required dependencies:
``` sh
cd Real-time-Emotion-Detection
```

```sh
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### Running the Application
To start the emotion detection, simply run:
```sh
python app.py
```

Follow the on-screen instructions to begin capturing emotions in real-time.


## License
This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## Acknowledgments
- The RMN library developers for their outstanding work in the field of emotion detection.
